but behind me is a building called Sun
hill
it's an old people's home and it's in
our village of Sunnyside on Tyneside and
it's going to be demolished in fact
they're in the middle of demolishing it
now the reason why it's going is because
they built a brand new Sun hill and old
people's home right next door to it
so this old building needs to come down
but there are some bees living in the
building now we initially knew about one
feral honey bee colony in the building
and it has been there for about seven or
eight years and I've agreed to go in and
rescue the bees rescue the colony but we
have now discovered that there are
actually three hives or three colonies
in the building and that means that our
workload for that has now traveled but
if we are able to rescue them and able
to save them we're gonna start up a
community beekeeping project and get
lots of other people involved in
beekeeping this is one of those
colonies we weren't aware of and it
looks quite recent the comb is
light-colored
and looks very busy the next door is
what looks like
wasps nest
I know what is it again
this is the one that we knew about
and it looks quite old and it's
it's quite messy inside and this is the
second one we didn't know about
beforehand and it is very big certainly
lots of comb
must be filled bees that's the amperage
that one of the colony uses to get
access to
it's nest
I'd assume out
you can see
on the
first floor
or two days ago we checked out the three
foul honeybee colonies here in Sun Hill
and decided that we could move them and
two days on and we're here early in the
morning and what we're going to do is
try and cut them from the roof there and
we're going to drop them drop the comb
with all the bees into this brood box
and then close it up and leave it
standing for a few days and hopefully
the bees will settle down and then we'll
take them away to a new site temporarily
as you can see they seem to be quite
Placid at the moment so hopefully
they'll stay like that during the move
I was hoping it was all going to come up
one big lump but I don't think I'm gonna
be able to to do that
well of
I managed to capture the whole of the
comedy and it's now in the box and it
went in a lot easier than I expected
and we think we've caught the Queen as
well which is why all the bees are
staying in the box because they will
stay with the Queen so we're gonna close
this off now and we should leave it a
few days to settle down well there is
the colony it seems to be very settled
and David is gonna put a super on it
just to allow it to expand and then
we'll put a roof on it I'm pleased to
say that we've now captured all three of
the colonies it's got a bit messy we're
covered in honey but all three were
reasonably strong one in particular was
enormous but we've got some of the comb
here from one of the hives which was
just too much to be able to get into a
brood box and this here was condemned
this is one of the the new highs and
we've put all the the comb into the
brood box here we've put a super on top
and now there's no wild comb in year
it's going to be a complete mess now
normally you would try and cut it out
and put it into frames but you know
frankly it just wasn't going to happen
because one we just don't have the time
to do it and secondly if we had
it was just too messy to be able to cut
it neatly into frames so we are stuck
with putting it into here so what we've
done it is put a super on top with some
frames in they will end up hanging a lot
of comb from underneath the super but
it'll give us some degree of control and
management on the top of the hive to be
able to have frames that we can take out
and it stops them hanging one comb from
the roof of the hive as well so there we
are
these are going to stay for three days
here in the building and then on Tuesday
morning in three days time I'm going to
move them to one of our enquiries where
they will settle down and hopefully with
the start of community beekeeping
project well its number Tuesday morning
three days after we first got the
colonies into the hives we've got one of
them here it's not entirely as we wanted
it because where the each colony
originally was the bees had started to
cluster there as well but each hive had
bees in as well so what we've tried to
do is collect the bees from where
they're being clustering and then drop
them into the respective hives and these
are now ready to go down to our Acree
well that's the are a parade in Wycombe
now and we've brought the three hives
here and we're going to open them up
we're going to keep the hives here this
year and then next year we'll move them
to the new site where we'll have the
beekeeping community beekeeping projects
underway but open them up now
indeed there they are